Let's learn about the lost data structure in this course graphs graphs are one of the most useful and
most used data structures in computer science when it comes to modeling real life.
In short a graph is simply a set of values that are related in a pair wise fashion and you can see over
here.
It looks like a little network.
There's connections to different nodes in a graph.
Each item is called a node or a vertex.
So this is a node.
This is a node nodes are then connected with edges.
So that's an edge that's an edge and that's a niche and as you can imagine graphs are great data structures
to model real world relationships.
We're presenting length's grass Sorry deal for cases where you're working with things that connect to
other things.
Kind of like how the Internet works.
Right.
We can use graphs to represent maybe friendships maybe family trees we can use graphs to represent networks
and the worldwide web or we can use graphs to represent roads one city to another and the roads that
are connected as you can imagine.
Facebook uses it for their social network.
Amazon uses it for their recommendation engines and Google Maps uses graphs for determining the shortest
path to where you want to go.
So let me ask you a question.
Do you think this is a graph.
Well yeah obviously we just went through it.
What about this.
What about this and this and this.
What about this one.
All right finally this just getting a few more this this and this and this Yep they are all graphs.
Even this one that kind of looks like a linked list.
That's a graph.
And as you can see in our my map graphs encompass things that we've learned before such as trees and
linked lists linked lists are a type of tree.
Trees are a type of graph.
So in the next couple of videos Let's learn all about graphs.